Episode 13, George.
One of the reasons that I felt close to Miki was that we were in somewhat of the same situation.
Miki had inherited a country and I had inherited something myself.
You see, about a week after I attended the protest, my father suddenly died of a heart
attack and I became the new CEO of Whiterock Investments Limited, our family investment firm.
Well, it wasn’t just “family”.
We managed almost $25 billion in assets, which we, now I, I guess, invested around the world.
It was only a few days later that Miki called…
surprising me, since we usually corresponded by email.
“George,” he said in his usual charming way, “first of all, my deep condolences
on the death of your father and secondly, congratulations on your new role!
I bet you’re incredibly busy.”
“Thanks, Miki,” I replied.
“You’re probably one of the few people who understands what it’s like.
‘Heavy is the head that wears the crown’, you once said.”, hoping he’d be impressed by my memory.
He ignored it and changed the subject.
“And you took a trip to the Ankhaz Embassy last week, I hear.”
My mood darkened.
“Miki… how did you know that?
You’re not having me followed, are you?”
“Oh, my goodness, no!” Miki laughed.
“Our ambassador in London is General Nabikiv, who you met when you were here.
He reported to me on the protest and said he recognised
you in the crowd, talking to some of our local supporters.”
I told myself not to be so paranoid.
Of course, all ambassadors need to send these kinds of reports.
However, it was a bit embarrassing to be noticed there.
I hoped Miki wouldn’t get the wrong impression.
“Anyway,” Miki continued, “your company has something called a Global
Development Initiative Fund… and I have a country that needs development.
Do you see where I’m going with this?
We’re building a dam, a new airport and a beach resort… all
of these projects could be great investments for Whiterock.
We still have oil fields that we haven’t tapped.”
I was shocked.
I hadn’t expected a business proposal.
“Miki,” I said, “You know that you’ve been generating negative stories in the media here.
It will be a hard sell to convince my people to agree to invest in Ankhazastan.”
“But the final decision is up to you, as the CEO and majority shareholder,” Miki pointed out.
“Yes,” I agreed.
“Like a…dictator,” Miki said.
I could almost hear a grin coming over his face.
“Well, I wouldn’t quite put it that way…,” I replied, but my mind was working rapidly.
Whiterock was the 12th biggest corporation of its type, and
our performance had been quite lacklustre the past few years.
Maybe… just maybe… Miki’s idea could boost us into
the top ten… and make huge profits at the same time.
“You know what, Miki,” I said, “You’re right.
These really could be solid investments.”
“Then fly over here and let’s talk,” said Miki.
I thought about this for a moment and said “The investments would
need to be connected to some kind of positive social change.
Or at least seen to be connected to change.”
And Miki replied, “No problem, George!
No problem.”
Perhaps this was exactly what we both needed.